I'll show you the Montana film. This film
was shot August the 15th, 1950. It was
taken in Great Falls, Montana by Nick
Mariana. Immediately after we were
notified of the sighting, we sent an
intelligence man to get a first-hand
report.
My name is Nick Mariano. For the past six
years I've been the general manager of a
minor league baseball club called the
electrics. We play out of Great Falls
Montana and are a farm club of the
Brooklyn Dodgers. On August 15th 1950 at
Legion ballpark in Great Falls Montana
after a couple of hours in the clubhouse
office I went up into the grandstand to
call the groundskeeper. As I reached the
top of the stairway, I glanced northward
to the tall Anaconda Copper Company
smokestack to check the direction of the
wind from the white smoke. Force of habit,
I suppose, because our outfielders use it
as an indicator on defensive play. As I
looked up, I saw two silvery objects
moving swiftly out of the northwest. They
appeared to be moving directly south. The
objects were very bright and about 10,000
feet in the air. They appeared to be of a
bright shiny metal, like polished silver.
Both were the same size and were traveling
at the same rate of speed, which was much
slower than the jets which shot by shortly
after I filmed the discs. Suddenly they
stopped. It was then I remembered the
camera in the glove compartment of my car.
I raced downstairs yelling for my
secretary, Miss Virginia Ronnie. The
distance from the top of the stairway to
my car is about 60 feet and I must have
made that in about six jumps. I asked my
secretary if she saw anything and she said
yes, two silvery spheres. I unlocked the
glove compartment of my car, took out the
camera, turned the telephoto lens on the
turret into position, set the camera at f
-22, picked up the objects in the
viewfinder and pressed the trigger. The
discs appeared to be spinning like the at
top and were about 50 feet across and
about 50 yards apart. I could not see any
exhaust, wings, or any kind of fuselage.
There was no cabin, no odor, no sound,
except I thought I heard a whooshing sound
when I first saw them. As the film clicked
through the camera, I could see the
objects moving southeast behind the
General Mills grain building and the black
water tank directly south of the ballpark.
I filmed the objects until they
disappeared into the blue sky behind the
water tank.
This is the Montana film projected exactly
as it was photographed. The objects are
moving against a 25 to 28 mile an hour
wind.
This is the film in double frame or slow
motion. A slight bounce in the movement of
the objects as well as the tower is
perceptible. This is due to the handheld
camera. The film, analyzed frame by frame,
shows the movement of the objects to be
horizontal and steady.
We will now vary the action and size of
the objects and also stop the action from
time to time for your study. We have just
made a jump cut in the film to an enlarged
size and reversed the action.
You are now seeing the objects exactly as
they were photographed, but from a closer
perspective.
Analysis reveals that the objects are not
balloons nor any kind of known aircraft.
The images are very different from those
produced by any kind of birds at any
distance. The shape, brightness, speed,
rectilinear path, steady motion, and
separation rule out various forms of
optical atmospheric mirages or cloud
reflections.
Comprehensive analysis has eliminated
meteors and other known natural phenomena.
The possibility of airplane reflection has
been carefully studied and ruled out.